README.md, before:

Multiple Level Maven Modules
============================

My friend Rob recently asked me if I knew how to execute a single test in a Maven module that was nested down below the 1st level below the parent pom and I
didn't know how to do that. I didn't have any visibility into his project's directory structure and sending emails back and forth wasn't really getting us
anywhere very quickly. Finally I bit the bullet and put together my own little example Maven project.

This is the directory structure of the project

    maven-multiple-level-modules-parent
      maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent
        maven-multiple-level-modules-first
        maven-multiple-level-modules-second

There is a pom in each module directory. In the 3 modules below the root module, each references the one above it as it's parent. The 2 parent modules each
reference their respective children in its own <modules> section.

The parent pom
==============

There is a parent pom in the top level module, whose type is pom

The sub-parent pom
==================

Directly below the parent module there is another module with a parent pom. Let's refer to it as the sub-parent module containing a sub-parent pom, and its
type is also pom

The pom children
================

Layered under the sub-parent module are 2 child modules whose poms each have jar as their type.

The Problem
===========

So if the goal was to execute the test phase of only 1 of the pom children, and beyond that to fire only 1 test class from that module, or to be even more
discriminating, to execute only 1 test from the chosen test class, then at a minimum the *-pl* option would have to be used to name the module. But what I
couldn't figure out was how to specify the correct syntax for the name of the module so that the Maven engine would recognize it and execute it. In the end,
and is often what I find to be the case when munging around with Maven internals *-X* is your friend. What I saw was:

    [INFO] Scanning for projects...
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Reactor Build Order:
    [INFO]
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-parent
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-first
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-second
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-parent 1.
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent 1.0
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-first 1.0
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] === REACTOR BUILD PLAN ================================================
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-parent:pom:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent:pom:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first:jar:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-second:jar:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] =======================================================================


So it turns out that the GAV for each module applies here. GAV is a Maven technical concept that resolves to GroupId, ArtifactId and Version.

So in the case of executing the test phase only in the maven-multiple-level-modules-first module the syntax turned out to be:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first

To execute only the AppTest test class during that test phase the syntax is:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first -Dtest=AppTest

And to execute only the testOfCopyOfTestApp in the TestApp class the syntax is:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first -Dtest=AppTest#testOfCopyOfTestApp

For completists, I wasn't able to get the syntax to execute multiple tests from the test class using the "+" as a between test delimiter to work. When I
tried it Maven threw various exceptions.

Commit message:

More refinement of the README. Will probably go on refining ad nauseum

README.md, after:

Multiple Level Maven Modules
============================

My friend Rob recently asked me if I knew how to execute a single test in a Maven module that was nested 2 or more levels below the parent pom and I
didn't know how to do that, and none of the suggestions that I made worked for him in his environment. I didn't have any visibility into his project's
directory structure and sending emails back and forth wasn't really getting us anywhere very quickly. Finally I bit the bullet and put together my own little
example Maven project. In hopes that others might learn something useful from it, I published it here.

This is the directory structure of the project

    maven-multiple-level-modules-parent
      maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent
        maven-multiple-level-modules-first
        maven-multiple-level-modules-second

There is a pom in each module directory. In the 3 modules below the root module, each references the one above it as it's parent. The 2 parent modules each
reference their respective children in its own <modules> section.

The parent pom
==============

There is a parent pom in the top level module, whose type is pom

The sub-parent pom
==================

Directly below the parent module there is another module with a parent pom. Let's refer to it as the sub-parent module containing a sub-parent pom, and its
type is also pom

The pom children
================

Layered under the sub-parent module are 2 child modules whose poms each have jar as their type.

The Problem
===========

So if the goal was to execute the test phase of only 1 of the pom children, and beyond that to fire only 1 test class from that module, or to be even more
discriminating, to execute only 1 test from the chosen test class, then at a minimum the *-pl* option would have to be used to name the module. But what I
couldn't figure out was how to specify the correct syntax for the name of the module so that the Maven engine would recognize it and execute it. In the end,
and is often what I find to be the case when munging around with Maven internals *-X* is your friend. What I saw was:

    [INFO] Scanning for projects...
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Reactor Build Order:
    [INFO]
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-parent
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-first
    [INFO] maven-multiple-level-modules-second
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-parent 1.
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent 1.0
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO]
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [INFO] Building maven-multiple-level-modules-first 1.0
    [INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] === REACTOR BUILD PLAN ================================================
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-parent:pom:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-sub-parent:pom:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first:jar:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [DEBUG] Project: org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-second:jar:1.0
    [DEBUG] Tasks:   [test]
    [DEBUG] Style:   Regular
    [DEBUG] =======================================================================


So it turns out that the GAV for each module applies here. GAV is a Maven technical concept that resolves to GroupId, ArtifactId and Version.

So in the case of executing the test phase only in the maven-multiple-level-modules-first module the syntax turned out to be:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first

To execute only the AppTest test class during that test phase the syntax is:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first -Dtest=AppTest

And to execute only the testOfCopyOfTestApp in the TestApp class the syntax is:

    mvn test -pl org.zrgs.maven:maven-multiple-level-modules-first -Dtest=AppTest#testOfCopyOfTestApp

For completists, I wasn't able to get the syntax to execute multiple tests from the test class using the "+" as a between test delimiter to work. When I
tried it Maven threw various exceptions.
